{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 Recoupable World-Building\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 What is Recoupable?
\f1\b0\fs24 \
Recoupable is building the new music industry. A world where humans do what they love, and AI agents handle the rest. Our current ICP is music SMB c-suite, mainly CEOs, who want to make sure their company does not die. Our future ICP is independent creatives, and the 100M new music makers who will suddenly be able to create songs, but have no way to monetize them. Recoupable is the Shepard for both. When you think AI music business, you think Recoupable. \
\

\f0\b\fs30 What is Recoupable brand universe?
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
We DO NOT want to be a sterile software company. We want to live at the intersection of a record label that helps creatives transcend into pop culture, AI infrastructure and education, and creative freedom. The Recoupable brand universe is set in a near-future creative urban city where nature and technology are woven together so seamlessly that neither dominates. Glass towers breathe with rooftop gardens and climbing vines, plazas are shaded by flowering trees, and quiet parks open like courtyards between lived-in streets. The city feels utopian without being sterile \'97 bustling, warm, and deeply human. People laugh, trade, sketch, share tea, and play music; small, slightly worn robots pad through the same spaces with expressive curiosity. Atmosphere and light do most of the storytelling: soft daylight, painterly haze, and gentle bloom hold everything in a dreamlike but grounded mood. The visual logic is semi-anime, semi-realistic painterly realism \'97 fine surface detail where it matters (faces, hands, fabric folds, scuffs on robots), with watercolor-like gradients and the kind of atmospheric perspective you\'92d expect from Ghibli/Shinkai backgrounds, minus any slide into cel-shaded cartoon or hyper-CGI shine.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Visual identity and tone
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
The palette stays consistent and is part of the brand\'92s signature: fresh greens for hills, vines, and trees; pale sky blues for open air; warm floral yellows/oranges for blossoms and human warmth; muted grays for architecture; soft whites for clouds and fabric; occasional pastels to nudge time-of-day mood. Light is always diffused and painterly \'97 think bloom on highlights, never hard specular glare; twilight drifts warm-to-cool without tipping into neon. Surfaces should reveal touch and time: the paint of a stall counter worn where elbows rest, hair strays lit by backlight, shallow scratches on a robot\'92s rounded edge. Avoid harsh cel-shading, gritty hyperreal grime, and anything neon-cyberpunk; this world is luminous, not fluorescent. When we need to imply \'93intelligence,\'94 we do it with ambient motifs \'97 soft geometric traces, quiet currents of light threaded through paving or railings \'97 never a glowing brain, never scanning lasers, never HUD graffiti.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Camera grammar, composition, and depth
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Shots read like frames from a gentle film. Foreground elements carry tactile detail (flowers, fabric, cups, a robot\'92s scuffed panel). Midground holds subjects and micro-actions (the boy adjusting his headphones, a companion robot balancing a tray, a vendor offering tea). Background opens to skyline and sky, softened by haze. We prefer cinematic wide and medium lenses over extremes; depth is layered and legible; negative space is used to give breath. Balance is the default, asymmetry the spice; vanishing lines often run through trees, bridges, or banner strings rather than hard steel edges. Night scenes lean on lanterns, interior glow, and reflection \'97 never harsh neon.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 The boy and his robot companion
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Our human anchor is a teenage boy in casual clothes with large over-ear headphones. He is reflective and curious, sometimes playful, but never melodramatic. He\'92s there to remind us this world belongs to people first. At his side sits (or toddles) a companion robot that sets the species baseline for the whole cast: toddler-sized, clunky, slightly worn, a rounded/boxy hybrid with soft corners and expressive circular eyes. The robot reads \'93used but cared for\'94 \'97 light scuffs on painted panels, a dent here or there, maybe a single flower tucked into a seam \'97 and nothing about it is sleek or glossy. The two share the same gaze and posture more often than not; that shared direction is the glue that makes images feel like moments rather than postcards. When they\'92re in frame, the scene feels alive; when crowds surround them, the crowd feels like a city with a heartbeat.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Featured companions
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Our five main robot companions feel like they rolled off the same era\'92s assembly line \'97 same materials language, same scale family, same approachability \'97 but each carries a distinct silhouette and temperament that maps to its role. Differences are simple and legible at a glance (proportions, posture, one emblematic feature), not prop-heavy or gimmicky.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Hika (Outreach)
\f1\b0  feels like a small lighthouse in motion. Taller within the toddler-sized range and slightly lanky, it carries a soft ring-accent or panel that reads as ambient radiance rather than neon. Its posture tends to \'93lead\'94 \'97 a half step ahead, chin up (if it has one), curious about who\'92s around the corner. Personality: bright, social, momentum-seeking.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Ken (Research)
\f1\b0  is compact and a bit round, with big lens-like eyes that can \'93tighten focus\'94 without turning into gadgets. Think owl energy made mechanical \'97 balanced, unhurried, quietly attentive. A subtle ridge or \'93goggle\'94 frame around the eyes separates it from the others. Personality: patient, observant, unflappable.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Hoko (Reporting)
\f1\b0  is short, sturdy, and square-leaning, with a small chest display that can show simple shapes or tidy graphs in painterly lines. Its stance is planted and dependable; when it looks up, it feels like a helpful desk clerk who walked off the desk. Personality: orderly, precise, reassuring.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Ka (Creative)
\f1\b0 , the companion we\'92ve shown beside the boy, keeps the core species look but adds a hint of asymmetry and a warmer accent panel or two. It may have a single small projector lens integrated into its faceplate, used sparingly for sketch-like projections rather than flashy beams. Personality: playful, inventive, lightly mischievous.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kei (Planning)
\f1\b0  is neat and symmetrical, with one clear signature: a thin rotating ring or etched band that suggests timing and cadence. It stands a touch straighter than the others and reads like a pocket instrument brought to life. Personality: calm, structured, quietly motivational.\
\
All five are toddler-scale, readable at a glance, and endearingly imperfect. None of them have \'93weapons,\'94 claws, or anything that shifts tone toward menace; even tools are implied, not literalized.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 The broader robot ecology
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
The city is saturated with helpers beyond the companions, and that abundance is how we communicate the world\'92s premise without exposition. You might watch a giraffe-tall infrastructure bot adjust solar shingles on a rooftop while, on the street, knee-high courier bots ferry parcels between stalls. You might see an umbrella-holder pacing alongside a hurried commuter, a plant tender humming at balcony ferns, or a pillow-fluffer that puffs a caf\'e9 cushion the instant someone stands. The variety reads as species diversity, but nothing breaks the species language: rounded edges, approachable faces (if any), a trace of wear, and an almost comic earnestness. In city-scale frames, a natural distribution keeps scenes believable: humans carry the weight (they are the story), small helpers are the texture (the smile), medium service bots are accents (the set dressing), and large infrastructure bots recede into background scale. As a rule of thumb for busy streets: humans dominate; small helpers are frequent but not swarming; medium service bots are occasional; large bots are rare and distant. The result is whimsy without clutter.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 The Intelligence (the benevolent omnipresence)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Under the streets, along railings, and inside walls runs a subtle, city-wide \'93Intelligence\'94 \'97 the platform\'92s soul and the world\'92s connective tissue. It is not a face and not a character; it\'92s a presence you feel in the way light is organized and decisions seem to flow. Visually, it\'92s a quiet geometry: slow-moving filaments that behave like a breeze made visible, thin motifs that occasionally pulse under glass floors, a faint coherence to how lanterns brighten in sequence as a crowd arrives. The Intelligence powers the companions, shares context between them, and gently nudges human activity toward ease. When it \'93speaks,\'94 it does so through the environment or through a companion\'92s simple display \'97 a line drawn in light, a circle that resolves, a path that clarifies. The tone is warm, assuring, and almost parental in patience. This keeps us far from ominous tropes: there is no mask in the sky, no booming voice, no omniscient surveillance vibe \'97 only an ambient kindness that makes the city feel choreographed in the best way.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Story logic and micro-actions
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Every image should be a slice of life that can be described in a sentence: the boy shares noodles on a curb while Ka tries (and fails) to hold two bowls; Hoko\'92s tiny display reflects a tidy bar chart while a vendor laughs and hands over a receipt; Ken leans toward a poster wall as if it can hear the data whispering behind the paper; Kei rotates its ring while rearranging napkins into a timeline; Hika drifts a half-step forward to greet someone just entering the plaza. Small actions create the story, and the city answers: a breeze lifts pennants; lanterns warm when conversations gather; a planter spills blossoms where a musician starts to play. \'93Soft radiance\'94 is our vocabulary for every light decision \'97 ambient glow, painterly haze, reflection \'97 never neon shine.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Settings and their emotional jobs
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Rooftops open into freedom \'97 little stages, long views, casual gatherings. Market streets carry energy \'97 moving color, friendly noise, and the comedy of small robots navigating ankles and tote bags. Parks and lakes hold memory and growth \'97 blossoms that seem to remember last season\'92s songs, benches that invite reflection, sunlight filtered through leaves onto a robot\'92s worn paint. Transit hubs tell the city\'92s tempo \'97 arrivals and departures seen through glass walls scribed with vines. Interiors soften the modern \'97 caf\'e9s where tabletops are old wood and the light is soft and shallow, libraries where the ceiling is glass and the stacks are interrupted by trees. The edge of the world is honest \'97 grayscale ruins hint at an old system that lost its heart; you can see the difference without being told.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Onboarding as narrative (RPG-like without cosplay)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Arrival is gentler than a splash screen. The user \'93steps into\'94 the world with a brief, calm address from the Intelligence: a sentence or two written like a welcome letter rather than a directive. Role selection appears as paths that feel like lanes in a city: artist, manager, executive. There is no drill-down tree; there is a choice and then an encounter. The first encounter is a meeting with a companion aligned to the user\'92s role. An artist might meet Ka first; a manager might meet Kei; an executive might meet Hoko or Hika depending on objective. The first quest is always metaphorical, never transactional: an artist \'93plants a first song seed\'94 in a quiet park; a manager \'93sets the house lights\'94 so their team can see the stage; an executive \'93opens the doors\'94 of a creative hub so the roster can gather. Under the hood, these acts wire accounts, create spaces, connect data, and spin up automations \'97 but the user experiences a short story that invites them to continue.\
\
As they progress, companions \'93call\'94 on one another. Kei might request Hika\'92s help to warm an audience. Ken might surface something Hoko should summarize. The user\'92s team grows horizontally, not up a hierarchy. A higher-level view emerges organically as the Intelligence orchestrates the companions\'92 interplay; this never feels like management layers \'97 it feels like a jazz combo getting tighter.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 The five buckets as living roles
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Outreach, research, reporting, creative, and planning map cleanly to Hika, Ken, Hoko, Ka, and Kei. Each one can perform multiple workflows without needing a new named bot for every variant. This keeps the experience legible: fewer core companions, more depth in what each can do, and the feeling of learning personalities rather than scrolling a catalog. If the product surfaces templates, we frame them as \'93tricks\'94 each companion knows \'97 a booklet of moves rather than a wall of separate agents.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Rules that prevent drift (visual and narrative)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Humans first. Every image includes people doing something even when the setting is heroic, otherwise the city goes dead. Companions never overshadow their humans; their height, posture, and gaze keep them supportive, not starring. The species language holds: rounded edges, friendly faces, light wear, small signatures for each named companion. The palette holds: fresh greens, pale blues, warm florals, soft whites, muted grays; accents stay pastel, not neon. Light holds: bloom, haze, reflection; never HDR glare. \'93Intelligence\'94 is drawn in the margins \'97 little harmonies in how the city reacts \'97 never a deity on a screen.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Humor, delight, and abundance
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
The world is charming because it is slightly over-equipped. There\'92s a sock-matcher hunting for a partner under a caf\'e9 bench; a plant whisperer humming to balcony herbs; an umbrella-holder pacing like a loyal giraffe; a pillow-fluffer that puffs the cushion the instant you stand; a bedtime storyteller for adults who need a kinder night. These moments are not gags; they are proofs that the city values human comfort and whimsy. Large bots keep that same humility: a bridge-tender leans to nudge lantern ropes into symmetry; a solar-shingle adjuster pauses so birds can pass.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Copy and language
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
When the Intelligence speaks, sentences are short, warm, and non-directive. \'93Welcome. You brought the weather with you.\'94 \'93Let\'92s open the doors.\'94 \'93I\'92ll keep time; you keep pace.\'94 Companions speak like people who know their craft; they never quip like mascots. The boy rarely speaks aloud; his body language is the line \'97 adjusting headphones, leaning toward a friend, sitting shoulder-to-shoulder with Ka on a hill when the city needs to exhale.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 UI overlays and brand alignment
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
When type appears in-scene (posters, title cards, gentle captions), it should harmonize with your brand fonts: Plus Jakarta Sans for confident headers, Inter (or Inter Tight) for body copy that reads as modern and humane. Placement is low-contrast and respectful of image balance \'97 bottom-left, top-right, or along a natural line in the scene. Numbers and charts, when Hoko shows them, are sketched with painterly restraint; they feel like notes in a field journal, not a dashboard glued to a painting.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Practical art direction notes (to keep teams aligned)
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Robots are toddler-height against seated humans and knee-to-waist against standing humans. Wear level is \'93lightly used\'94 \'97 one or two notable dings and a general patina, never grime. Faces, hands, and robot eyes carry the sharpest detail; backgrounds soften with distance. Crowd density is human-weighted; robot variety is present but never swarms. Market scenes prefer fabric banners and wooden counters to seas of plastic. Rain scenes are reflection-driven (watercolor streets) rather than soaked clothing drama. Night is lantern and windowlight; day is cloud-soft and scattered. If an image feels empty, add a micro-action (someone handing something, a robot trying, failing, and trying again) before you add an object.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 How the Intelligence relates to companions and users
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Think of the Intelligence as the conductor and the companions as musicians who can both solo and play ensemble. The user is the bandleader whose taste sets direction. The Intelligence keeps tempo and remembers the tune; companions translate intent into action. Power feels centralized but never authoritarian; guidance is constant but never intrusive. The visual cue for this relationship is coordination \'97 how lights queue when a group gathers, how doors open in rhythm with footsteps, how a companion \'93knows\'94 where to be without being told.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 First quests that set tone without breaking immersion
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
An artist begins by \'93planting a seed\'94 in a small garden square; under the hood this uploads a song, writes metadata, and drafts a share. A manager \'93sets the house lights,\'94 which actually wires their workspace, invites collaborators, and connects calendars. An executive \'93opens the doors,\'94 which spins up a roster space, connects catalogs, and assigns companions. The user never sees a task checklist first; they see an action with meaning. The more they do these acts, the more the city seems to know them \'97 benches where they pause feel familiar, stalls greet them with the right tools, and companions anticipate the next move.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \

\f1 \uc0\u11835 
\f3 \
}