---
title: "Dad Mode"
subtitle: "The secret to personal growth isn't in self-help books or ayahuasca trips. It's in a $1.99 pregnancy test from Target."
author: "Evan Armstrong"
date: 2024-09-30
column: napkin-math
url: https://every.to/napkin-math/dad-mode
paywalled: true
scraped_at: 2026-06-11T16:07:57.067Z
---

# Dad Mode

*The secret to personal growth isn't in self-help books or ayahuasca trips. It's in a $1.99 pregnancy test from Target.*

#### Sponsored By: Bessemer Venture Partners

This essay is brought to you by [Bessemer Venture Partners](https://www.bvp.com/everything-everywhere-all-ai-book?utm_source=everynewsletter&utm_medium=affiliate&utm_campaign=collab0924&utm_term=aiebook), a leading venture capital firm investing in artificial intelligence. Discover how AI is transforming industries and creating new entrepreneurial opportunities with their latest free ebook, [Everything, Everywhere, All AI](https://www.bvp.com/everything-everywhere-all-ai-book?utm_source=everynewsletter&utm_medium=affiliate&utm_campaign=collab0924&utm_term=aiebook)*.* Dive into strategies and real-world case studies that will help you stay ahead of the AI revolution. Ready for the AI era?

[Get your free copy now](https://www.bvp.com/everything-everywhere-all-ai-book?utm_source=everynewsletter&utm_medium=affiliate&utm_campaign=collab0924&utm_term=aiebook)

[Want to sponsor Every? Click here](https://every.to/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#c9bab9a6a7baa6bbbaa1a0b9ba89acbfacbbb0e7bda6).

*Was this newsletter forwarded to you? *[Sign up](https://every.to/account)* to get it in your inbox.*

---

When my wife handed me a pregnancy test, a faintly pink cross indicating a positive result, I mostly felt one thing: fear. The kid was planned for, and our marriage was the best it had ever been. By every metric, this was an ideal time for us to grow our family. Still, holding that test, I felt more terrified than elated.

To me, that little plastic stick—on sale with a BOGO—wasn’t just a pregnancy test. It was shining a bright, searing light into my interior self, forcing me to confront the problem that was, well, me. At that moment, I realized that the issues I used to kick to tomorrow needed to be addressed today.

Mainly, I realized that it was all on my wife and me. The only future opportunities the child would have would be the ones that we could provide. Did I want my kid’s daycare to be a windowless basement with no real education program? That would be $2,800 a month. Did I want my baby to have organic snacks, teachers with master’s degrees, and a window? Be prepared to shell out $52,000 annually. That money wasn’t just going to appear—it was on us, and no one else, to make it happen. (These are all real prices for daycare in Boston, by the way.)

Being forced to confront the cold reality of “If you suck, your child’s life will suck” isn’t exactly motivating. Over the past eight months, however, I have found that pending parenthood is a forcing function of positive improvement. It sounds a bit crazy, but if you want to be better at life, a kid is a surefire way to make you improve fast.

Realizing how much was on me suddenly and totally shifted my brain. There was an audible revving sound that sounded through my skull as my mind kicked into a new gear I did not know existed. My wife lovingly calls it “dad mode.” It has been a revolution in how I approach my career, my priorities, and my approach to health and partnership.

Dad mode has changed my life for the better in ways that I believe are valuable for people who are ambitious and care a lot about their careers—even if they aren’t parents-to-be. To put it bluntly, it is unfair to expect a child to put up with your shit. The only moral choice an expectant parent can make is to get your shit together.

## Dad careers

Here's the thing about impending fatherhood: It's like someone cranked up the contrast on a photo of your life. Suddenly, everything that was a bit fuzzy or gray comes into sharp focus. And let me tell you, some of that clarity isn't pretty.

In college, there was always some career counselor trumpeting the importance of “pursuing your passion” or “following your bliss.” Perhaps you were told something similar. And honestly, for most of my career, I believed this. It seemed logical to me: Your time is limited, so you might as well [work on something](https://every.to/napkin-math/you-probably-shouldn-t-work-at-a-startup-9387b632-345c-4a22-bac0-3cb92f0eecf1) that you find meaningful.

The flaw in this logic lies in the verb: to “work on.” Dad mode jolted me awake to the possibility that it is more meaningful to work *for* something, not *on*. I realized that the point of work is what it *enables you to do*, not what you actually do on a day-to-day basis*. *I get meaning from my career not by working on something I care about, but by working for people I love.

Companies are profit-seeking, amoral blobs of activity—not moral arbiters. Their legal structure is designed to make money for shareholders. A company that invokes “making a difference” or “doing what you love” as a benefit for its employees is doing so because these things are non-cash benefits. It is far cheaper to make employees feel good than to pay them enough to motivate them.

While building products that make the world better is great, it is a mistake to rely on companies for meaning. That isn’t why they exist, and trying to smush our life’s mission into an environment dedicated to maximizing capital returns is a recipe for disappointment. It is unfair to expect our jobs to simultaneously be our social clubs, our religion, and the way our bills are paid.

Dad mode meant realizing that I ascribed far too much meaning to what I did. For years, I had made career decisions that prioritized my passions over financial gain. While I’m happy with where my life is, I do regret not trying to maximize my earnings so that I could easily afford the lifestyle I want to provide for my family.

Within a few weeks of the pregnancy, I realized how short I would be on upcoming baby bills and started scrambling. I created a new cohort-based course called ["How to Write With AI"](https://www.writewithai.xyz/) that has over 90 students. (Three weeks in, our customer surveys show that they are very satisfied.) For most of my writing career, I had avoided doing this sort of add-on product because I wanted to focus on honing my craft. Once that test came back positive, I realized that this was a passion-based mental block—one that was stripped away the instant I realized what would be required of me.

[PAYWALL]
